# Intro 

This tutorial shows you how to use Django, HTMX, Tailwind, Playwright and AlpineJS to build a TODO app. Because the world needs another todo list app. We all have stuff to do.

## Watch this

Watch [this youtube playlist](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OqHAFddo_vQ&list=PLkNRnyBiyiTcf0yFI09ATnNpfUZ5VSgsm) to get started.

Once you are done with that, choose a project to work on!

If you are struggling to choose, then head over to these files to get some ideas:

- [Appendix: Inspiration](./Appendix:%20Inspiration.md)
- [Appendix: Project ideas](./Appendix:%20Project%20ideas.md)

## Self-paced 

Everybody who is taking part in this tutorial has a different background. There are people who are relatively new to Python and web dev, and there are people who have been around the block. You'll move at different paces and need different things. That is totally fine :)

Remember that this is not a race! Take the time you need to understand each step.

## Getting the most out of this tutorial

This tutorial is not designed to be the perfect source of all knowledge. It's a guide. We will not be deep-diving into every concept along the way because then it would have to be a book. Quite a big book.

There is a good chance that you will come across concepts that are not familiar to you as you move through this tutorial. That is expected. Try to take the time to understand things. The more you lean in and try to understand how everything fits together, the more you will get out of this learning experience. 

Don't be afraid to ask questions. Don't feel bad if you are missing a piece of prerequisite knowledge. Just ask the questions you need to. 

## Prerequisite knowledge 

This tutorial is not designed for people who are completely new to programming. It's useful for you to know:

- Python (just the basics is alright)
- Virtual environments 
- How HTML works

## Structure 

This workshop aims to give you some robust skills. This is not entertainment. We want you to retain the skills as time continues. That means we will be relying on some tried and true, science-backed teaching mechanisms.

1. Spaced repetition 

If you come across a concept once then you are very likely to forget it. We will revisit concepts a few times over in different ways.

2. Realistic applications

Once you are at the end of the main tutorial content you will be invited to build something uniquely yours. This will force you to grapple with the concepts in different ways and get hard feedback about your own thought-processes.  This will also help you build stronger mental frameworks and do better work in the long run.

## Portfolio 

For those of you who are newer to software development, the project you build could easily become a major part of your personal portfolio. Put care into what you do here and it can pay off in a big way!


