# What are we building 

We're going to start off by building a simple CRUD app. This will give you a good idea about how all the technologies we are using fit together. This is not going to give you ninja-master level skillz, you can't get those in a single weekend. The goal here is to expose you to the things you will need to know in order to do most of what you will need to do, and set you up for future growth and success.

## Some useful videos 

At this point, if this is a live event, your instructor should take you though a demo and introduce the different technologies. 

You are also welcome to watch these videos at any point.

- https://www.youtube.com/live/limx6x6-D9Q?si=KDnU8A7Ofk04zD57&t=2987
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rrliP18nIig

## We're building a CRUDdy TODO list app! 

CRUD stands for Create, Read, Update, Delete. 

Most of the Internet is pretty CRUDDY. If you can wrap your head around CRUD then you can achieve a lot.

### C == Create 

In the demo TODO list app, we submit a form to Create a new item in the database.

When Creating items you generally make use of HTTP POST requests. Making use of the incorrect HTTP verb won't break your application. But it might make it a bit confusing for humans. 

Using the right HTTP request verb for the job is a convention we follow. There are also occasional security concerns (you'll meet CSRF tokens a little later on).

### R == Read

In the demo app, we Read by getting a list of todo items. This is typically done using a GET request.

### U == Update 

In the demo we use PUT requests to mark items as Done or not done. 

You can also update things by filling in forms or interacting with them in different ways.

### D == Delete 

This makes use of the DELETE HTTP verb.

