# Hello Playwright 

We will now install Playwright and write our first test.

We'll be following the test driven development (TDD) methodology - we'll write a test that fails, then we'll implement the code to make it pass. TDD is very much worth knowing about. 

## First, install Playwright

```
pip install pytest-playwright
playwright install
```

You might be prompted to install some extra dependencies. If you are then do this:

```
playwright install-deps  
playwright install
```

## Install Pytest

Django uses `unittest` by default. We are going to be using Pytest instead because `pytest-playwright` has a lot of functionality. Writing that functionality ourselves would be a big job.

We'll need to install this as well:

```
pip install pytest_django
pip install pytest-env
```

Also, create a file called `pytest.ini` in the root directory (the same directory as your manage.py file). It should look like this:

```
[pytest]
DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE = yata.settings
python_files = tests.py test_*.py *_tests.py
env =
    DJANGO_ALLOW_ASYNC_UNSAFE = true

```

`Pytest-env` made the `env =` section of your new ini file work. It lets you set up environmental variables for your tests. 

The `DJANGO_ALLOW_ASYNC_UNSAFE` variable is necessary for Playwright to work with the Django project.


Your directory structure should look like:

```
├── manage.py
├── pytest.ini
├── yata
│   └── ...
└── todos
    └── ... 
```

## Test driven development (TDD)

You have probably heard of Test Driven Development. If you have not then it's the practice of writing your tests before writing your code. At first it will feel a little strange if you are not used to it. Prepare yourself emotionally ;)

If you are new to TDD then the general algorithm can be summarised as: RED, GREEN, REFACTOR:

- RED: Write a test. The test should fail because the functionality has not been built yet.
- GREEN: Write the functionality that makes the test pass 
- REFACTOR: Now that all the tests pass, refactor the code. It can get messy if you skip this step 

## Write your first test 

In your app directory, do the following:

- delete tests.py
- make a new directory called 'tests'
- create a new file inside the tests directory called `test_todos.py` or similar. 
- paste the following code into the file:

**IMPORTANT** Pytest has a special mechanism for discovering your test functions so it can run them. If you are not careful about naming things exactly as expected, then Pytest wont run the tests.  You do have some control over how PyTest discovers your tests. You can change the configuration in your `pytest.ini` if you need to. And if your tests are not running, then `pytest.ini` is the best place to look for clues.

```
from django.urls import reverse
from playwright.sync_api import Page

def test_display_empty_list_on_first_load(live_server, page: Page):
    url = reverse_url(live_server, "index")

    weeee  ## NameError. This is intentional. Please leave it here for now. We are doing this to check our wiring!

    page.goto(url)
    page.wait_for_selector("text=Nothing to see")


def reverse_url(
    live_server, viewname, urlconf=None, args=None, kwargs=None, current_app=None
):
    end = reverse(viewname, urlconf, args, kwargs, current_app)
    return f"{live_server.url}{end}"
```

Generally, having one tests.py file is not enough. It's often useful to have multiple test files. That is why we delete tests.py and create a directory for our tests.

The other possibly confusing thing is the `reverse_url` function. In our tests, we will need to be able to access different urls. Hardcoding urls (writing them out by hand) is bad practice for many reasons (Can you think of why?). This function will make it easier for us to write our tests.

In our first test we have `url = reverse_url(live_server, "index")`.  This makes use of the url configuration to figure out the final url.

We included the `reverse_url` function in our test file because it was convenient to put it there. Once the app gets a little bigger it would be useful to move the function somewhere else so that it can be re-used.

## Note to PyCharm users

If you are using the PyCharm to to write your code then sometimes it does weird things when you set up Pytest for the first time. If it starts behaving badly then close PyCharm and open it again 😅 

## Run your tests

```
pytest
```

You'll get a failure because of the `NameError`. This means everything is wired up correctly.

Now remove the `NameError` and run the tests again. 

The test takes a little bit of time to run. Why is that? What do you remember about how Playwright works?

(Hint: something about waiting and asynchronous frontends...)

The test will still fail. The next thing we will do is make it pass.

## Keeping track of the things you installed 

You installed Django, pytest, playwright, and a bunch of other things. If someone else were to try to run your application, they would need to install the same things.

This is where a requirements.txt  file comes in.

Many people will run this command to create a requirements.txt file:

```
pip freeze > requirements.txt
```

But this has it's downsides. 

Rather:

Use `pip freeze` to see a list of all the installed packages. 

Think back to all the things you installed using `pip install ???`. (Do not type in `pip install ???` at this point. Be careful about simply copy-pasting things from a tutorial without reading the sentence!)

Look through the output from `pip freeze` and identify the things you explicitly installed. Copy those lines and put them into a new file called `requirements.txt`.

Alternatively, execute `pip freeze > requirements.txt` and remove the lines you don't recognise. 

Mine looks like:

```
Django==5.1.1
playwright==1.47.0
pytest==8.3.3
pytest-django==4.9.0
pytest-env==1.1.4
pytest-playwright==0.5.2
```

It's important to remember to keep your `requirements.txt` file up to date. Every time you install something new, you'll need to add it to your file. 

This is helpful if you ever want to get your application running on a different computer. You can just run `pip install -r requirements.txt` to install all og the things.

## Side quest: Better dependency management 

When you `pip installed` all your stuff, quite a lot of different dependencies were installed. And all of those dependencies have different version numbers. 

It's good practice to keep track of:

- the things you explicitly installed (that is what we did using `requirements.txt`)
- all the dependencies and their versions (this is not something we have done)

There are lots and lots of different ways to get this done. One way is by using a thing called `pip-compile`.

Start off by installing pip-tools `pip install pip-tools`.

Next, rename your `requirements.txt` file to `requirements.in`

Last, run `pip-compile`.

This will create a new `requirements.txt` file. Take a look.

It's good to remember that every time you pip install something new it is important to update your `requirements.in` file and recompile your `requirements.txt` file.