# Tailwind 

If you run `runserver` and take a look at your website, it'll be quite plain and ugly. 

Let's spice things up with Tailwind.

Add the following into the `head` of your `index.html` file:

```
<script src="https://unpkg.com/@tailwindcss/browser@4"></script>
```

Now refresh your page. You'll notice that things look a little different. Tailwind baselines all the styles so you can build up from a good foundation.

Let's add some style. Update your `index.html` page so it looks like this:

```
<html lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
    <title>Things to do</title>
    <script src="https://cdn.tailwindcss.com"></script>

</head>

<body>
    <div class="mx-auto max-w-7xl sm:px-6 lg:px-8 space-y-4 pt-4">

        <h1 class="text-2xl font-bold leading-7 text-gray-900 sm:truncate sm:text-3xl sm:tracking-tight">Things to do
        </h1>


        <div class="text-center text-2xl font-bold text-transparent/30 pt-6">
            Nothing to see here...
        </div>

    </div>
</body>

</html>
```

Now refresh your page. It looks much better, right?

## Make it pretty 

This is a good time to play with Tailwind for a bit. This is not critical at this point but it could be nice for you to get a feel for what it can do. 

You can find the docs [here](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/utility-first).

Try tweak things and see what you can change. Change the heading size, the colour, whatever you want.

You are welcome to ask an LLM for support on this. 

## Note about Tailwind

At this point in the tutorial, we are using Tailwind in easy mode. We are using the [Play CDN](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation/play-cdn). 

It is not suitable for use in production.

We will be upgrading our Tailwind installation to a production-ready setup later in this tutorial. 

## Side quest: Auto refresh 

You'll notice that as you change things you need to manually refresh your browser to see what you have done. This is tedious. 

This package makes life much easier:

https://github.com/adamchainz/django-browser-reload

It only takes a few minutes to set up and it makes life much nicer.

Once you have set it up, then try to play with your template and see how well it works. For example, you might change some text sizes and colours.

Consider:

```
<div class="text-center text-2xl font-bold text-transparent/30 pt-6">
    Nothing to see here...
</div>
```

Can you make this text larger? What does `pt-6` do? What if you change it? If you change the text to something else then does the change reflect immediately or do you need to refresh the page?
