# Tailwind like a pro 

Tailwind is lovely. It really really is. But things are looking pretty repetitive and not very DRY. 

You might also notice that the buttons in the header area have a hover effect that is ever so slightly different from the hover effects on the "delete" buttons. This is one of the downsides of locality of behaviour. 

Code that is not DRY is prone to human error.  

On top of that, our HTML classes are looking pretty wild. The code is getting a bit hard to read because the class strings are so long. And things are likely to get even more repetitive and verbose as the application gets bigger.  

Another thing you might have noticed is that when you open up your browser's dev tools (F12 in Chrome) then there is a warning in the console. The warning says: 

```
cdn.tailwindcss.com should not be used in production. To use Tailwind CSS in production, install it as a PostCSS plugin or use the Tailwind CLI: https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation
```

None of this is ideal.

The solution is to install Tailwind "properly". 

## Basic installation 

We are going to install Tailwind using Tailwind's recommended methods. If you look at the installation docs [here](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation) then you'll see that the Tailwind CLI is meant to be the simplest and fastest way to get things done.

You'll need to install `node` if you don't already have it installed. You can read the docs [here](https://nodejs.org/en/learn/getting-started/how-to-install-nodejs). 

Then install Tailwind like so:

```
npm install tailwindcss @tailwindcss/cli
```

You'll see a `node_modules` directory in your project directory alongside a few other things. 

**IMPORTANT**: Make sure that `package.json` is in the same directory as your `manage.py` file!

Make sure your `.gitignore` file is set up to ignore the `node_modules/` directory.

Next up, initialise Tailwind:

```
npx tailwindcss init
```

This will create a `tailwind.config` file. 

## Configure your template paths

The way the Tailwind CLI works is:

- it looks at what Tailwind classes you are using in your html files, your tailwind.config file and an input css file (we'll see this later)
- it then outputs a final css file that only includes the stuff you need 

We need to configure Tailwind so that it knows where our html files are. We reference Tailwind classes from inside our html template files, so we need to tell Tailwind to look at those files.

Go into your `tailwind.config` file and edit it so the module exports look like this:

```
module.exports = {
  content: ["./**/*.html"],
  theme: {},
  plugins: [],
}
```

## Make your input CSS file 

Now create a file in your static directory. You can name it something like this:

```
yata/todos/static/todos/tailwind_input.css
```

Put the following inside the file and save it:

```
@tailwind base;
@tailwind components;
@tailwind utilities;
```

## Build your final Tailwind CSS

Now type in this command to build your final css file. 

```
npx tailwindcss -i ./todos/static/todos/tailwind_input.css -o ./todos/static/todos/tailwind_output.css 
```

You will now see `tailwind_output.css` file alongside your `tailwind_input.css` file.


## Update your index.html file 

The next thing we need to do is update `index.html` so that it makes use of our new Tailwind output file.

Get rid of the line that says:

```
<script src="https://cdn.tailwindcss.com"></script>
```

Replace it with: 

```
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="{% static 'todos/tailwind_output.css' %}">
```

Now if you refresh your page you'll see that...nothing changed. It should all look exactly the same. This is good.

If you open up the developer console you'll see that the warning message has disappeared. It no longer says:

```
cdn.tailwindcss.com should not be used in production. To use Tailwind CSS in production, install it as a PostCSS plugin or use the Tailwind CLI: https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation
```

## What's the point? 

This does have a point, I promise :) It just takes a few steps to get things set up before we can start using Tailwind to its full potential.  We have one more thing to do and then we can get to the fun stuff.

## Improve developer experience 

Remember when we ran this command? 

```
npx tailwindcss -i ./todos/static/todos/tailwind_input.css -o ./todos/static/todos/tailwind_output.css 
```

This looked at the classes used in our html files and then generated some output css that only included the classes we are actually using. 

That means that if we changed our index.html file to make use of different classes, we would need to run this weird command again. And it is a very weird command so it would be nice if it was shorter.

Look for a file called `package.json` in your project. It should be in the same directory as your `manage.py` file. We'll now edit that file:

It starts off looking like this:

```
{
  "devDependencies": {
    "tailwindcss": "^3.4.14"
  }
}
```

Edit it so it looks like this instead:

```
{
  "devDependencies": {
    "tailwindcss": "^3.4.14"
  },
  "scripts": {
    "tailwind": "tailwindcss -i ./todos/static/todos/tailwind_input.css -o ./todos/static/todos/tailwind_output.css --watch"
  }
}
```

Does that `tailwind` script look familiar? What do you think the `--watch` part of that line does?

Now you should be able to run the following command:

```
npm run tailwind
```

This will build your output css and then watch for file changes. When your code changes then Tailwind will rebuild the output css.

## From now on 

From now on when you run your project you'll need to run 2 commands in 2 terminals: 

```
# Terminal 1 (virtual env needs to be active)
python manage.py runserver 

# Terminal 2 (don't worry about the virtual env here, it makes no difference)
npm run Tailwind 
```

## Renaming colors 

In the `yata` app you saw in the initial demo, there was a lot of orange. Maybe we want to change the primary color to green or blue. Maybe we want some kind of custom primary color based on the Tanzanian flag. 

Open up your `tailwind.config` and update it to look like this:

```
/** @type {import('tailwindcss').Config} */

const colors = require('tailwindcss/colors')

const primary = colors.orange

module.exports = {
  content: ["./**/*.html"],
  theme: {
    extend: {
      colors: { primary }
    },
  },
  plugins: [],
}

```

There is nothing special about the word `primary` here. We could have called it `screwdriver` if we wanted. And there is nothing special about `colors.orange` either. It's a perfectly normal JavaScript object. 

You can now use the word `primary` instead of `orange` in your html files. Eg you could do things like this:

```
<a href="#" class="bg-primary-600 hover:bg-primary-700 text-gray-100 font-bold rounded-full pt-1 pb-1 pl-3 pr-3">About</a>
```

This will make it easier to keep your class colors DRY. If you wanted to change your entire application from an orange theme to a green theme, you should be able to achieve that by changing one line of code. 

## Adding new color ranges

Tailwind has a lot of different colors built in. You can see a list of them [here](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/customizing-colors). But sometimes it is necessary to introduce new colors. 

For example you might want to do something like this to introduce a whole new set of colors:

```
chill = {
        '50': '#f2f9f9',
        '100': '#ddeff0',
        '200': '#bfe0e2',
        '300': '#92cace',
        '400': '#5faab1',
        '500': '#438e96',
        '600': '#3b757f',
        '700': '#356169',
        '800': '#325158',
        '900': '#2d464c',
        '950': '#1a2c32',
    }

module.exports = {
  content: ["./**/*.html"],
  theme: {
    extend: {
      colors: { chill }
    },
  },
  plugins: [],
}
```

You can generate new color scales using [this tool](https://uicolors.app/create).

## Custom classes 

Tailwind is really great for a while, but it can get to a point where the class strings in your HTML become very long and unwieldy. In this case, it it often useful to create your own classes. You do this inside your `tailwind_input.css` file:

```
@tailwind base;
@tailwind components;
@tailwind utilities;

@layer components {

    .button {
        @apply rounded bg-primary-600 px-2 py-1 text-xs font-semibold text-white shadow-sm hover:bg-primary-500 focus-visible:outline focus-visible:outline-2 focus-visible:outline-offset-2 focus-visible:outline-primary-600 inline-block align-middle
    }
}
```

This introduces a class called `button`. Now, whenever you want something to look like your standard button you can give it this class.

Eg:

```
<a class="button" href="somewhere">A link that looks like a button</a>
```

See if you can add more of your own classes. For example, you might want a secondary button that is a different color to the primary button. 


## Sensible default styles

You can also use the tailwind_input.css file to set up default styles for different elements. For example:

```
@tailwind base;
@tailwind components;
@tailwind utilities;

@layer components {

    .button {
        @apply rounded bg-primary-600 px-2 py-1 text-xs font-semibold text-white shadow-sm hover:bg-primary-500 focus-visible:outline focus-visible:outline-2 focus-visible:outline-offset-2 focus-visible:outline-primary-600 inline-block align-middle
    }

    p {
        @apply text-lg
    }
}
```

Now all paragraphs will have large text.

How would you like your links to look? How big should your `h1` headings be? How about `h2`? Do you use lists or tables? This is a good place to set up all of that stuff.

## Good practice?

There is some controversy around what is considered best practice in this space. 

The approach recommended by this tutorial is to use tailwind_input.css to set up the elements that you are going to be using often. 

You'll usually want to set up styling for paragraphs, headings, lists and anchors at the very least. 

You'll also likely want some utility classes for different things, for example: `button`, `button_secondary` and whatever else you use often. 

Don't put absolutely everything in this file, only the things that get used across many pages and places. This file should make your code clearer and easier to use, it should not make things unclear or hard to navigate.




## What not to do 

Don't fall into the trap of putting all your styling and class information in this one file. Try to use it for reusable utility classes and defaults only. 

It's useful to know that the classes defined here can be used in conjunction with others. For example:

```
<a class="button w-full" href="somewhere">A link that looks like a button</a>

<div class="card mt-5">things</div>
```

So when you create utility classes in your tailwind_input file then it's good to only include the critical information that will come up over and over. 

## Layout classes 

Generally it's good to keep information about layout and spacing in the HTML files themselves. So, if you wanted to have a primary button with some extra padding on the left then you could say:

```
<button class="button pl-3" href="somewhere">A button that looks like a button</button>
```

